“The facts of the case are simple.  Sir Charles Baskerville
was in the habit every night before going to bed of walking
down the famous yew alley of Baskerville Hall.  The
evidence of the Barrymores shows that this had been his
custom. On the fourth of May Sir Charles had declared his
intention of starting next day for London, and had ordered
Barrymore to prepare his luggage.  That night he went out
as usual for his nocturnal walk, in the course of which he
was in the habit of smoking a cigar.  He never returned.
At twelve o’clock Barrymore, finding the hall door still
open, became alarmed, and, lighting a lantern, went in
search of his master.  The day had been wet, and Sir
Charles’s footmarks were easily traced down the alley.
Halfway down this walk there is a gate which leads out on
to the moor. There were indications that Sir Charles had
stood for some little time here.  He then proceeded down
the alley, and it was at the far end of it that his body
was discovered. One fact which has not been explained is
the statement of Barrymore that his master’s footprints
altered their character from the time that he passed the
moor-gate, and that he appeared from thence onward to have
been walking upon his toes.  One Murphy, a gipsy
horse-dealer, was on the moor at no great distance at the
time, but he appears by his own confession to have been the
worse for drink. He declares that he heard cries but is
unable to state from what direction they came.  No signs of
violence were to be discovered upon Sir Charles’s person,
and though the doctor’s evidence pointed to an almost
incredible facial distortion—so great that Dr. Mortimer
refused at first to believe that it was indeed his friend
and patient who lay before him—it was explained that that
is a symptom which is not unusual in cases of dyspnœa and
death from cardiac exhaustion.  This explanation was borne
out by the post-mortem examination, which showed
long-standing organic disease, and the coroner’s jury
returned a verdict in accordance with the medical evidence.
 It is well that this is so, for it is obviously of the
utmost importance that Sir Charles’s heir should settle at
the Hall and continue the good work which has been so sadly
interrupted.  Had the prosaic finding of the coroner not
finally put an end to the romantic stories which have been
whispered in connection with the affair, it might have been
difficult to find a tenant for Baskerville Hall.  It is
understood that the next of kin is Mr. Henry Baskerville,
if he be still alive, the son of Sir Charles Baskerville’s
younger brother.  The young man when last heard of was in
America, and inquiries are being instituted with a view to
informing him of his good fortune.”