 “The facts of the case are simple.  Sir Charles Baskerville
            was in the habit every night before going to bed of walking
            down the famous yew alley of Baskerville Hall.  The
            evidence of the Barrymores shows that this had been his
            custom. On the fourth of May Sir Charles had declared his
            intention of starting next day for London, and had ordered
            Barrymore to prepare his luggage.  That night he went out
            as usual for his nocturnal walk, in the course of which he
            was in the habit of smoking a cigar.  He never returned. 
            At twelve o’clock Barrymore, finding the hall door still
            open, became alarmed, and, lighting a lantern, went in
            search of his master.  The day had been wet, and Sir
            Charles’s footmarks were easily traced down the alley. 
            Halfway down this walk there is a gate which leads out on
            to the moor. There were indications that Sir Charles had
            stood for some little time here.  He then proceeded down
            the alley, and it was at the far end of it that his body
            was discovered. One fact which has not been explained is
            the statement of Barrymore that his master’s footprints
            altered their character from the time that he passed the
            moor-gate, and that he appeared from thence onward to have
            been walking upon his toes.  One Murphy, a gipsy
            horse-dealer, was on the moor at no great distance at the
            time, but he appears by his own confession to have been the
            worse for drink. He declares that he heard cries but is
            unable to state from what direction they came.  No signs of
            violence were to be discovered upon Sir Charles’s person,
            and though the doctor’s evidence pointed to an almost
            incredible facial distortion—so great that Dr. Mortimer
            refused at first to believe